ECK: Document annotations and labels propagation (#2144)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/propagate-labels-annotations.md

---
applies_to:
  deployment:

>     eck: all

Reviewer: this does not apply to `all`, but instead `3.1.0`

```suggestion
    eck: 3.1.0
```

service/elasticsearch-sample-es-default         ClusterIP   None             <none>        9200/TCP   4m12s
service/elasticsearch-sample-es-http            ClusterIP   XX.XX.XX.XX      <none>        9200/TCP   4m14s
service/elasticsearch-sample-es-internal-http   ClusterIP   XX.XX.XX.XX      <none>        9200/TCP   4m14s
service/elasticsearch-sample-es-transport       ClusterIP   None             <none>        9300/TCP   4m14s
```

It is possible to use `*` as a wildcard to propagate all labels and annotations from the parent resource to the child resources. For example:

```yaml
apiVersion: elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co/v1
kind: Elasticsearch
metadata:
  annotations:
    # Instructions for the operator to propagate all the annotations and labels to resources it creates.
    eck.k8s.alpha.elastic.co/propagate-annotations: "*"
    eck.k8s.alpha.elastic.co/propagate-labels: "*"
  name: elasticsearch-sample
spec:
  version: 9.1.0
  nodeSets:
    - name: default
      config:
        # this allows ES to run on nodes even if their vm.max_map_count has not been increased, at a performance cost
        node.store.allow_mmap: false
      count: 1
```

::::{note}

> Please be aware of the following considerations when using this feature:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the following considerations when using this feature:
```
Just as a convention we avoid using 'please' in the docs, but feel free to ignore.

* Propagated labels and annotations are not automatically deleted. If you want to remove them from the child resources, you need to do so manually or use a cleanup script.

> * To prevent conflicts, some labels and annotations reserved for internal use by ECK or Kubernetes, are not propagated. This is the case for labels and annotations that match `*.k8s.*.elastic.co/` and also `kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To prevent conflicts, some labels and annotations reserved for internal use by ECK or Kubernetes are not propagated. This is the case for labels and annotations that match `*.k8s.*.elastic.co/` and also `kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration`.
```
For me, I think it reads a tad better without the comma.
